# Contributing

We appreciate feedback and contribution to this repo.
Before you submit a pull request, there are a couple requirements to satisfy.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following prerequisites met:

- **Go Version**: You must have Go version 1.21 or newer installed on your system. You can check your Go version by running `go version` in your terminal.
- **GOPATH Set Up**: Make sure you have set up your GOPATH.
- **Export GOPATH**: Ensure you have exported your GOPATH to your system's environment variables. This allows tools and libraries to locate your Go workspace.
- **Modify bashrc or zshrc**: To automatically set your GOPATH and export it every time you open a terminal, you can add the following lines to your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc` file on Linux and macOS systems:
- **Enviroment File**: Ensure you have a `.env` file in the root folder of the repository or that the environment variables have been exported.

```sh
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin
```

After adding these lines, run source `~/.bashrc` or source `~/.zshrc` to apply the changes.

## Generating the Getters

The SDK offers safe getters in order to access pointer fields to avoid panics on nil pointers.

```go
// Example
client, err := auth0API.Client.Read("EXAMPLE_16L9d34h0qe4NVE6SaHxZEid")
if err != nil {
    return err
}

// GetLogoURI() is safe to use as it will return "" if client.LogoURI is nil. 
fmt.Printf("Logo URI: %v", client.GetLogoURI())
```

When adding a new pointer field to a struct, run `make generate` to generate the getter for it.

## Code Quality and Security

### Linting

Before submitting your pull request, ensure your code follows the project's coding standards by running the linting task:

```sh
make lint
```

This will run golangci-lint across the codebase, identifying potential stylistic issues and suspicious constructs.

### Vulnerability Checking

To check for any known vulnerabilities in the dependencies, run:

```sh
make check-vuln
```

This uses govulncheck to scan the codebase for known security issues in the Go ecosystem.

### Generating Accessors and Testing for Getters

Ensure that your changes include any necessary updates to the accessor methods and that all struct field getters are correctly generated by running:

```sh
make check-getters
```

This command will verify that all getters are up to date and generate any missing ones.

## Running the Tests

There are two ways of running the tests:

- `make test` - runs the tests with http recordings. To run a specific test pass the `FILTER` var. Usage `make test FILTER="TestResourceServer_Read"`.
- `make test-e2e` - runs the tests against a real Auth0 tenant. To run a specific test pass the `FILTER` var. Usage `make test-record FILTER="TestResourceServer_Read"`.

### Running against an Auth0 tenant

To run the tests against an Auth0 tenant start by creating an M2M app using `auth0 apps create --name go-auth0-mgmt-tests --description "App used for go-auth0 management tests" --type m2m`, then
run `auth0 apps open <CLIENT ID>`. Authorize the Management API in the `APIs` tab and enable all permissions.

Then create a `.env` file in the root folder of the repository with the following details :

* `AUTH0_DOMAIN`: The **Domain** of the Auth0 tenant
* `AUTH0_CLIENT_ID`: The **Client ID** of the M2M app
* `AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET`: The **Client Secret** of the M2M app
* `AUTH0_DEBUG`: Set to `true` to call the Management API in debug mode, which dumps the HTTP requests and responses to the output


Now for the Authentication tests create another M2M app using `auth0 apps create --name go-auth0-auth-tests --description "App used for go-auth0 authentication tests" --type m2m`, then run
`auth0 apps open <CLIENT ID>`. Ensure all `Grant Types` except `Client Credentials` are enabled in `Advanced Settings`, then set the `Authentication Method` to `None` in the `Credentials` tab.

Then create a `.env` file in the root folder of the repository with the following details :

* `AUTH0_DOMAIN`: The **Domain** of the Auth0 tenant
* `AUTH0_CLIENT_ID`: The **Client ID** of the management M2M app
* `AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET`: The **Client Secret** of the management M2M app
* `AUTH0_AUTH_CLIENT_ID`: The **Client ID** of the authentication M2M app
* `AUTH0_AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`: The **Client Secret** of the authentication M2M app
* `AUTH0_DEBUG`: Set to `true` to call the Management API in debug mode, which dumps the HTTP requests and responses to the output

> **Note**
> The http test recordings can be found in the [recordings](./test/data/recordings) folder.

## Adding New HTTP Test Recordings

To add new http test recordings or to regenerate old ones you can make use of the `make test-record` command.

> **Warning**
> If you need to regenerate an old recording, make sure to delete the corresponding recording file first. 

To add only one specific http test recording pass the `FILTER` var, e.g. `make test-record FILTER="TestResourceServer_Read"`.

> **Warning**
> Recording a new http test interaction will make use of a real Auth0 test tenant. 
